README.md, before:

## ESP RainMaker Android App

This is the official Android app for [ESP RainMaker](https://github.com/espressif/esp-rainmaker), an end-to-end solution offered by Espressif to enable remote control and monitoring for ESP32-S2 and ESP32 based products without any configuration required in the Cloud. 

For more details :
 - Please check the ESP RainMaker documentation [here](http://rainmaker.espressif.com/docs/get-started.html) to get started.
 - Try out this app in [Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.espressif.rainmaker).
 
## Setup
 
To build this app, you will need a development machine, with Android Studio installed.
Download the source code and open this project in Android Studio.
You are now ready to run this demo.

## Features

### User Management

- Signup/Signin using email id.
- Third party login includes GitHub and Google.
- Forgot/reset password support.
- Signing out.

### Provisioning

- Uses [Provisioning library](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf-provisioning-android/) for provisioning.
- Automatically connects to device using QR code.
- Can choose manual flow if QR code is not present.
- Shows list of available Wi-Fi networks.
- Supports SoftAP based Wi-Fi Provisioning.
- Performs the User-Node association workflow.

### Manage 

- List all devices associated with a user.
- Shows node and device details.
- Capability to remove node of a user.
- Shows online/offline status of nodes.

### Control

- Shows all static and configurable parameters of a device.
- Adapt UI according to the parameter type like toggle for power, slider for brightness.
- Allow user to change and monitor parameters of devices.

### Local Control

- App uses ESP Local Control(esp_local_ctrl) component in ESP-IDF and Network Service Discovery APIs to search and manage user devices on local network.
- This feature allows user to control their ESP devices over local network by communicating over Wi-Fi + HTTP.
- Local Control ensures your devices are reachable even when your internet connection is poor or there is no internet over connected Wi-Fi.

This feature can be enabled/disabled by setting true/false value of `isLocalControlSupported` field in `local.properties`.
This feature is optional but enabled by default.
Add `isLocalControlSupported=false` in `local.properties` file to disable this feature.

### Scheduling

Schedules allow you to automate a device by setting it to trigger an action at a given time on a specified day or days of the week.
List of operations that are supported for scheduling :
 
 - Add.
 - Edit.
 - Remove.
 - Enable/disable.

Schedule can be enabled/disabled by setting true/false value of `isScheduleSupported` field in `local.properties`.
Schedule feature is optional but enabled by default.
Add `isScheduleSupported=false` in `local.properties` file to disable this feature.

## Additional Settings:

Settings associated with provisioning a device can be modified in the `local.properties` file.

Add below lines in `local.properties` and customize as per your requirement.
 
 ```
 transport=Both
 security=Sec1
 POP=abcd1234
 deviceNamePrefix=PROV_
 isFilterPrefixEditable=true
 isQRCodeSupported=true
 isScheduleSupported=true
 isLocalControlSupported=true
 ```  

Description of each key can be found below.

| Key                    	| Type    	| Description                                                                                                                                                                                                     	|
|------------------------	|---------	|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	|
| transport              	| String  	| Possible values:   <br> **Both** (Default) : Supports both BLE and SoftAP device provisioning. <br> **SoftAP** : supports only SoftAP device provisioning. <br> **BLE**: supports only BLE device provisioning. 	|
| security               	| String  	| Possible values:   <br> **Sec1** (Default) : for secure/encrypted communication between device and app. <br> **Sec0**: for unencrypted communication between device and app.                                    	|
| POP                    	| String  	| Proof of Possession. It's default value is **empty string**.                                                                                                                                                    	|
| deviceNamePrefix       	| String  	| Search for BLE devices with this prefix in scanning. It's default value is "**PROV_**".                                                                                                                         	|
| isFilterPrefixEditable 	| boolean 	| Allow users to edit the prefix used for filtering BLE devices. It's default value is **true**.                                                                                                                  	|
| isQRCodeSupported      	| boolean 	| Allow users to connect with the device and start provisioning using QR code which has device information. It's default value is **true**.                                                                       	|


## Supports

- Supports Android 6.0 (API level 23) and above.  

## License

  

    Copyright 2020 Espressif Systems (Shanghai) PTE LTD  
     
    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");  
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.  
    You may obtain a copy of the License at  
     
        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  
     
    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
    limitations under the License.

Commit message:

Feature : Node Grouping Node Grouping allows you to create abstract group or logical groups of nodes. List of group that are already added for a user is fetched from the cloud and displayed as a tab on the device page. User can create group, add devices in it or manage existing groups. Grouping feature is optional and can be enabled/disabled by setting true/false value of `isNodeGroupingSupported` field in `local.properties`.

README.md, after:

## ESP RainMaker Android App

This is the official Android app for [ESP RainMaker](https://github.com/espressif/esp-rainmaker), an end-to-end solution offered by Espressif to enable remote control and monitoring for ESP32-S2 and ESP32 based products without any configuration required in the Cloud. 

For more details :
 - Please check the ESP RainMaker documentation [here](http://rainmaker.espressif.com/docs/get-started.html) to get started.
 - Try out this app in [Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.espressif.rainmaker).
 
## Setup
 
To build this app, you will need a development machine, with Android Studio installed.
Download the source code and open this project in Android Studio.
You are now ready to run this demo.

## Features

### User Management

- Signup/Signin using email id.
- Third party login includes GitHub and Google.
- Forgot/reset password support.
- Signing out.

### Provisioning

- Uses [Provisioning library](https://github.com/espressif/esp-idf-provisioning-android/) for provisioning.
- Automatically connects to device using QR code.
- Can choose manual flow if QR code is not present.
- Shows list of available Wi-Fi networks.
- Supports SoftAP based Wi-Fi Provisioning.
- Performs the User-Node association workflow.

### Manage 

- List all devices associated with a user.
- Shows node and device details.
- Capability to remove node of a user.
- Shows online/offline status of nodes.

### Control

- Shows all static and configurable parameters of a device.
- Adapt UI according to the parameter type like toggle for power, slider for brightness.
- Allow user to change and monitor parameters of devices.

### Local Control

- App uses ESP Local Control(esp_local_ctrl) component in ESP-IDF and Network Service Discovery APIs to search and manage user devices on local network.
- This feature allows user to control their ESP devices over local network by communicating over Wi-Fi + HTTP.
- Local Control ensures your devices are reachable even when your internet connection is poor or there is no internet over connected Wi-Fi.

This feature can be enabled/disabled by setting true/false value of `isLocalControlSupported` field in `local.properties`.
This feature is optional but enabled by default.
Add `isLocalControlSupported=false` in `local.properties` file to disable this feature.

### Scheduling

Schedules allow you to automate a device by setting it to trigger an action at a given time on a specified day or days of the week.
List of operations that are supported for scheduling :
 
 - Add.
 - Edit.
 - Remove.
 - Enable/disable.

Schedule can be enabled/disabled by setting true/false value of `isScheduleSupported` field in `local.properties`.
Schedule feature is optional but enabled by default.
Add `isScheduleSupported=false` in `local.properties` file to disable this feature.

### Node Grouping

Node Grouping allows you to create abstract or logical groups of devices like lights, switches, fans etc.
List of operations that are supported in node grouping :

 - Create groups.
 - Edit groups (rename or add/remove device).
 - Remove groups.
 - List groups.

Grouping can be enabled/disabled by setting true/false value of `isNodeGroupingSupported` field in `local.properties`.
Grouping feature is optional but enabled by default.
Add `isNodeGroupingSupported=false` in `local.properties` file to disable this feature.

## Additional Settings:

Settings associated with provisioning a device can be modified in the `local.properties` file.

Add below lines in `local.properties` and customize as per your requirement.
 
 ```
 transport=Both
 security=Sec1
 POP=abcd1234
 deviceNamePrefix=PROV_
 isFilterPrefixEditable=true
 isQRCodeSupported=true
 isScheduleSupported=true
 isNodeGroupingSupported=true
 isLocalControlSupported=true
 ```  

Description of each key can be found below.

| Key                    	| Type    	| Description                                                                                                                                                                                                     	|
|------------------------	|---------	|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	|
| transport              	| String  	| Possible values:   <br> **Both** (Default) : Supports both BLE and SoftAP device provisioning. <br> **SoftAP** : supports only SoftAP device provisioning. <br> **BLE**: supports only BLE device provisioning. 	|
| security               	| String  	| Possible values:   <br> **Sec1** (Default) : for secure/encrypted communication between device and app. <br> **Sec0**: for unencrypted communication between device and app.                                    	|
| POP                    	| String  	| Proof of Possession. It's default value is **empty string**.                                                                                                                                                    	|
| deviceNamePrefix       	| String  	| Search for BLE devices with this prefix in scanning. It's default value is "**PROV_**".                                                                                                                         	|
| isFilterPrefixEditable 	| boolean 	| Allow users to edit the prefix used for filtering BLE devices. It's default value is **true**.                                                                                                                  	|
| isQRCodeSupported      	| boolean 	| Allow users to connect with the device and start provisioning using QR code which has device information. It's default value is **true**.                                                                       	|


## Supports

- Supports Android 6.0 (API level 23) and above.  

## License

  

    Copyright 2020 Espressif Systems (Shanghai) PTE LTD  
     
    Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");  
    you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.  
    You may obtain a copy of the License at  
     
        http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  
     
    Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
    distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
    WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
    See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
    limitations under the License.
